---
title:  "Don’t Panic. Focus and Learn New Skills"
date:   2018-09-19 09:31:00 -0500
category: blog 
tags: career 
---

Technical professionals are under pressure to learn something new for fear of missing out on the latest technologies. Non-technical professionals fear that technology and automation will take their roles away, so they are also under pressure to learn something new too. All for the same reasons – fear of missing out or losing their value. Fear takes over their minds. They begin to panic. So they open books, take courses online, or maybe join colleges again. The panic is still there because they are possibly sensing that the time to learn new things is probably too late. They started to have feelings of guilt and hopelessness – saying “why didn’t I learn this before?” Or “why did I pick this topic when there is now something new that I should have learned already.” Panic. Panic. What happens then? Sadness. Hopelessness. Anxiety. Guilt. All such negative emotions would take over their mind when what you should be focusing on positive development and learning. Yes, people multitask constantly, but it is not easy to be sad and stay focused at the same time. So what to do? Give up, no! Rush to learn every new thing out there? There is no time! What to do?

My advice to the reader who feels with what I am writing here is simple. 1) keep doing what you are doing AND 2) think of ONE problem that you want to solve and focus only on the skills necessary to help solve that problem. Organize your time between (1) the current job that you are good at and (2) the goal towards solving the problem. You will either find a new opportunity that you decide to take or you will come up with new ideas that feed into the current job that you are doing. In both cases, you will be in control, and you will have something different and real. Knowing that it is imperative but can be hard to focus on the problem that you want to solve, many times problems do not get resolved quickly or even at all. If that happens, then you go back to the same formula 1) try again with a new solution and 2) pick a new problem. I admit that this sounds like it is an infinite loop. It is but that is what learning is all about! That’s the way that you focus on solving problems and learning new things instead of wasting time panicking. Voila! We solved the panic problem!!
