---
title:  "I am I in AI"
date:   2018-09-21 09:31:00 -0500
category: blog 
tags: [data science]
---

I am addressing this to starters and professionals in the field of machine learning and artificial intelligence. It is part of a talk I plan to do at the University of Texas in Dallas next month, so I would appreciate any feedback.

The letters “A” and “I” are ubiquitous these days with the words “Artificial Intelligence.” But I want to change that for a minute and turn AI into “A person that is I.” “I” am the human with a biological brain, the intellect with emotions, the one who cares, the altruistic person, the one that errors, laughs, jumps, cries, fights, learns… the human being. If we take the word AI and describe it from a perspective of ourselves, A person that is I, then we may remember ourselves again instead of continuously looking outward towards artificial intelligence. If AI hype is about artificial intelligence, why cannot we think more of AI for things that matter to us, the human beings, the I?

When you, the human being, gets so excited about the latest technologies about machine learning, deep learning, reinforcement learning, Auto ML, and lots more, think less about the technology and think more about how you can use the technology to benefit your Is – the humans. What is the human problem that you want to solve with AI? What can you do with your learning to help improve the society around you? Yes, learning a lot of “A” technologies is cool, but, at some point, you won’t be able to catch up with every article on ArXiv, latest code repos on GitHub, latest conference proceedings, and the latest computer that you need. The breakthroughs in artificial intelligence are happening fast and are overwhelming sometimes. You may reach a point of disturbance because you won’t be able to catch up. Don’t push hard to catch up.

Spend more time about the “I” (you and us the humans) instead of “A” the artificial machine. Look at many of the problems that surround you every day and then find the machine learning tool that helps you solve it. Be that “I” in “AI”
